Michael Gilliland
Dr. Linda Szabo
Humanities 203
February 15, 2013
Words:

The Propitious Drones from Nevada

1.

Description of Characters and Obstacles

Although it is only brieﬂy mentioned in The Odyssey by Menelaus, the story of the Trojan Horse,
a technological marvel in which Odysseus and other Grecians hid to defeat the Trojans, is a
legend of Greek heritage that I have marveled at since I was a child (Fagles 133). Technology has
captivated me my entire life, and because of this technology, speciﬁcally the question of whether
it is a benefactor or opponent of society is the primary theme of my epic, The Propitious Drones
from Nevada. Because technology is the foundation of the plot, the main character has an interest
in technology, his name is M´ irt´n Ashley.
a ı
M´ irt´n, a 25 year-old, modernist architect living in Henderson, Nevada, possesses a
a ı
lifelong urge to make the world a better place and, through doing so, better himself. He is an
extremely curious individual, who will always seek out his own answers and, by his efforts, he
has gained a magnitude of endurance that withstands adversity of ”luck”, interaction and
situation. M´ irt´n’s greatest quality, the primary instance of which is yet to be revealed, is
a ı
sacriﬁce. Looking at the world around him, M´ irt´n sees pain and toil, his qualities are in direct
a ı
revolt to these problems, his qualities are his intentional attempt to solve them. M´ irt´n will soon
a ı
ﬁnd that the world’s problems are much greater than he ever could have expected.
There are two main obstacles that M´ irt´n will face in his journey. The ﬁrst, as will be
a ı
further described in the plot summary, occurs by accident. M´ irt´n must endure the desert, hiking
a ı
thirstily, weary, bloody and bruised; without the satisfaction of nourishment. Secondly, M´ irt´n
a ı
1

will have to face two drones (evil robots) each led by its synthetic, emulated, human will. Another
drone, called Gamma serves as a companion to M´ irt´n, as well as an antithesis to the to the
a ı
depraved drones. Gamma possesses the will of the scientist who was the fountainhead of the
technology by which the drones were engendered.

2.

Ten Opening Lines

Alas, the soulless night-owls perch atop the globe; the very images of patriotic afﬂuence, of
beloved charity. They need not take power, for to them we have freely given all authority, to these
devils we have exchanged our very souls for naught but the dirt which we will one day call home.
Their clanking bones collide beneath synthetic skin, never-breaking, indifferent to the strains of
time. The spoked axle that is their heart, rotates perpetually, powered by the desire
sub-microscopic slaves, indebted to an unknowable hope. Who will make the world anew? Who
possesses the ability to raze the dormant principality whose power resides in its patience, whose
war is waged in peace and whose visible love is a masked hatred. In the world there is peace – the
night sleeps – they do not. Their effort is dedicated to gaining prominence, to secretly colonizing
in the dark. In this epoch of emulated prosperity, who can make the world anew?

3.

Plot Summary

As the plot opens, M´ irt´n Ashley is driving his Oldsmobile from his home at Henderson to
a ı
Vegas. Some weekends, he drives to Vegas to practice his draftsmanship by sketching some of the
architectural wonders thereabout. As he enters the city, he sees a curious sight out his car
window: a woman being dragged out of a casino by men wearing dark suits. He indulges his
curiosity for a moment when, WHAM! He crashes into a limousine in front of him. At this
moment, A few men with dark suits rush out of the posteriorly mangled limo.
Realizing that these individuals do not appear to have his best interest in mind and that a
dark smoke is beginning to emit from his car’s hood, M´ irt´n promptly departs his vehicle.
a ı
2

Abruptly he is stopped however, seeing nothing but a red and black striped tie as his face is
forcefully planted upon the upper chest of a ﬂanking pursuer. M´ irt´n backs away. He looks
a ı
around, noticing about a half-dozen suit wearing mobster type ﬁgures. One of the mobsters shouts
an insult at him. M´ irt´n tries to curb them, with words implying passive reaction – he ﬁnds no
a ı
success. Unable to defend himself from the aggressors, they beat him down, lacking mercy or any
inclination for humane remorse.
M´ irt´n awakes to the sound of a low rumbling, in the trunk of a car. Over the sound of the
a ı
engine, he makes out words from a deep voice – that of the aggressor who had shouted earlier.
”The boss said that...,” M´ irt´n hears. Then, a few moments later, ”...near the border of Arizona
a ı
and Nevada....” M´ irt´n lay back, he drifts back into unconsciousness, this time in sleep, feeling
a ı
an eccentric sense of comfort or (perhaps) just delusion.
The unpleasant amalgamation of a creaking noise and a bright light awakening him this
time, M´ irt´n sees distinct aggressor who pulls him out of the trunk, throws him on the ground,
a ı
gives him a solid kick in the side and informs M´ irt´n in pure sarcasm, ”We gotta special treat for
a ı
you today.” Then, after a brief pause, ”For screwin’ up the boss’ favorite limo, you get to be
buzzard food.” M´ irt´n stared silently, an act which disturbed the very heart of the mobster who
a ı
had never felt such a calm as M´ irt´n illuminated. ”Well, if you got nothin’ to say,” said the
a ı
mobster almost shakingly, ”So long.”
M´ irt´n stood as the unnamed man drove off. He saw around him no rodes, his cell phone
a ı
was taken by the mobsters, but, since the sun had not set, he knew his path – he would walk West.
He endured the hike through the desert for a long time, stopping occasionally to eat plants he
found and rest. M´ irt´n ventured in optimistic endurance. His ﬁrst thought after the mobster left
a ı
was thankfully I had a large meal before my encounters those jokers. As he is walking near a
mountain, the ground starts shifting below him, he stumbles and falls down a trap hatch hidden in
the desert.
Cushioned by the sand that falls with him, M´ irt´n looks around at his new surroundings,
a ı
seeking food and water, seeing a dark, laboratory. The ﬁrst thing he sees is a ﬂickering computer

3

screen with a small window open (Revelation 1). Next, he sees a palm-sized circuit board which
he picks up. The strange board is labeled ”RVC No. 3” (Revelation 2). The third thing he ﬁnds is
a robot, with glowing eyes and an empty port on the side of its head, into which he inserts the
RVC. The robot comes to life and begins to tell a story of a scientist and a politician.
The great scientist, under the sponsorship of Benjamin Spade (the politician) had created a
machine that could import the will of any living organism into a circuit card known as the
Replicated Volition Chip. M´ irt´n had heard of Spade, in fact, there was hardly day when he could
a ı
go without hearing about the increasingly prominent politician. The, robot proceeds to tell
M´ irt´n that the chips could be implanted into drones that would then act out the will within the
a ı
RVC and that the ﬁrst RVC contained the wills of many animals and the second had contained
Spade’s will. Continuing, almost sorrowfully the drone tells M´ irt´n that the scientist saw an
a ı
unnatural evil in the wills of Spade and the animals and that, in desperation he secretly uploaded
his own will into the third RVC, along with the account that it had just relayed. The remorseful
drone then went on to say that the great scientist had given the drones the ability to mask
themselves as the bearer of their original will, and that they had been programmed in such a way
that they were unable to know how to download different or new wills. With almost human
sadness in his voice, the drone ﬁnished his account, saying that the animal drone and Spade’s
drone turned on them, killing Spade and the great scientist. ”They will not stop,” the drone
concluded, ”Until they have replicated themselves into society with such prominence that they
can destroy it. Then they will deconstruct this world.”
After the sobering account, the drone brought M´ irt´n some canned food that had been left
a ı
in the lab and it introduced itself as Model Gamma, saying, ”Nowhere in the account I was
provided did the scientist provide his name.” M´ irt´n and Gamma (now masked as the scientist)
a ı
made their way, through an underground tunnel system revealed by Gamma, to a small town in
Eastern Nevada from which they took a bus back to M´ irt´n’s home. At M´ irt´n’s house, they
a ı
a ı
researched Spade and discovered that he would be speaking in Vegas later in the week. That is
when they decided to strike.

4

As soon as Spade began speaking, Gamma pointed out the animal-willed drone, now a
bodyguard. Then, they sprinted out from the crowd, Gamma at Spade and M´ irt´n at the animal.
a ı
As M´ irt´n began beating the drone with the baseball bat he had brought along for the occasion,
a ı
he could see metal and sparks shooting from Gamma and Spade as the clashed. Bullets ﬂew
through Gamma from every side but he kept ﬁghting on until he arose victorious, standing
convoluted over his defeated opponent. M´ irt´n , had the advantage over the
a ı
animal-conglomerate-being, being as he struck in surprise. He also felt the surge of victory, but he
also a surge of pain, and looking down he saw blood smeared over his chest, the effect of bullets
from nearby bodyguards. He fell to the ﬂoor and his new found friend, Gamma the drone, picked
him up and ﬂed the scene bearing the body of he who had sacriﬁced so much for this world.

4.

The Hero’s Revelations

Revelation 1: RVC Window

Revelation 2: The Third Replicated Volition Chip

5

Revelation 3: Gamma in the Dark

6

Works Cited
Homer, and Robert Fagles. The Odyssey. New York: Penguin, 1997. Print.

7

